So when we have a collection, most often we want to do something with our collection, so we've seen
ways in which we can go and retrieve items or elements from our collection, ways in which we can add
elements and so forth.
But let's say we've given a collection such as this right.
It's a list of strings.
It contains names James, Paul or Gina and so forth.
And we want to go through and just retrieve, for instance, a name.
And we want to be able to filter this list to see if, for instance, Paul is in the list or Rafael
or Gina or James or whatever else we want to filter.
Well, there is a method we can call.
That's the beauty of collections, right?
So if I say my list and say that we can go ahead and call the filter there, there's different kinds
of filters.
But we weren't the first one and you can see here it says Filter.
And we have this curly braces there.
And whenever you see something like this, you'd know that this is indeed a lambda.
Functions are very nice, so they're everywhere.
OK?
Hit Enter.
And if you hit enter again, you're going to see the it argument being passed there.
So this is what we call it predicate.
In fact, you can see that it says it's a predicate and is a string.
So we're passing it in a string as an argument there, which is it.
And then it returns a boolean.
OK, so the party is going to be Boolean.
So in this case here, what do we want to do?
We want to say, for instance, if it's a white string that will be passing.
So in this case, could be any of these is equal to, for instance, Paul, if that's true, what's
going to happen is a new list will be created that will contain Paul if indeed Paul is part of this
list.
So it will be nice for us to put that in a new variable.
I'm going to say found like this.
So now if I say print found C and run should C, we have a list or an array of Paul.
So when we filter, what happens is a new list is created containing that element.
If found, if not, then it's going to show.
In fact, if I changes to Paolo or Paul zero ones, you see there because it's not part of this list,
we should see an empty list that's created that contains nothing.
We can do all sort of things.
Let's say we want to return any element that has more than five letters, for instance.
Well, we can do that.
We can come here.
And because I t in this case, it's a string.
I can actually also invoke a method on that so I can say length.
So the length is in return and int and you can see here there's this documentation.
It says length is a vowel of type that returns the length of these character segments.
All right.
So there we go.
So if I say it, length is greater, let's say, than four, and let's go ahead and run right?
So it only returns a new list that has names that have more than four letters.
James and Rafael in this case, Gina has four, so that's not more than four.
Paul also has four.
Nine.
More than four.
You can do all sorts of things.
You can also say I want to filter this list by, say, ends with.
Right.
So I'm going to try to find all of the names that end with, let's say, this character here.
L Well, that's right.
And you can see Paul and Rafael because they end with L L.
It says a suffix right the end, but we can also pass prefix and we can also do starts with look at
it, that's going to be a prefix, right with L.
Let's see if that's going to work.
Of course it will work, but we should see nothing because there are no names that start with L.
Then there we have it.
You can see that we have an empty list there.
Now one thing you will notice also, we can further filter things here.
So if I say it starts with and passed the prefix right, we want something that starts with R.
If we run this again, we'll see that we're going to get Rafael.
OK, there's Rafael.
However, if I change this are to lowercase r like this, what do you think is going to happen like
a run and we get an empty list?
The reason being is because this filter is case sensitive.
OK?
So it has to be exactly the same as what we may have in our list of.
So we can also, if you have already starts with a can hover over tells exactly what is expected or
what parameters are passed, what arguments are expected.
OK.
So here we you pass prefix past the string, which is this are in this case.
And then we can also pass the ignore case to either B Boolean to either be true or false.
So if you say ignore case and say true such, then what's going to happen is this one you will see that
it will catch Rafael because we said, just ignore the case.
Now the beauty here also is that.
Condition, what we call the predicate who can make it even more complicated, meaning we can cipher
through even more.
I can see we want to return any item in our lists here that starts with are ignoring the case.
And also I want to see two ends like this.
OK.
I can say it that ends with, let's say, l like this.
Now I've changed a few things here.
You notice, first of all, here we have this Screwfix and we have double quotes.
In this case.
Here we have single quotes.
What is this?
Well, the difference here is that you see here we have a character characters and Caitlin must be inside
of a single quotes, whereas strings have to be inside of double quotes.
It's very important distinction.
OK, so let's run this and see what's going to happen.
It's as empty here again is because it's looking at this al and is saying, Well, there's nothing that
ends with Al uppercase.
If we go back and say ignore, put in your line, say true and run again should be able to see Raphael.
And there you have it.
So you can make this as complex as you want to cipher through exactly what are you looking for in our
list?